# Mini-Project: The Dynamic Quote Generator  

# link to hosted website: quote-generator-frontend-five.vercel.app

# Project Description
This project is about quote generator, it will pick random quote from database(MongoDB atlas) when user click button [random quote], and if user click button AI quote : it will pick quote from AI gemini 
my project have : fronend, backend , database

- Frontend: Built with Next.js + TypeScript + Tailwind CSS.  
- Backend: Node.js + Express.  
- Database: MongoDB (Atlas).  

## Features
-  Fetch and display a random quote from the database.  
-  Full stack connection between frontend, backend, and database.  
-  Clean UI design (based on Figma mockup): https://www.figma.com/design/5pSRVIkd3iQIY3JZB8hWp7/quote_generator_ux-ui?node-id=0-1&p=f&t=TDkonxajpf65jEiZ-0  
-  Option to fetch quotes generated by AI (extra feature).  

## Technology Stack
- Frontend: Next.js, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS  
- Backend: Node.js, Express.js  
- Database: MongoDB Atlas  
- Hosting: Render (backend) + Vercel (frontend)  

## Setup Instructions for backend 
1. mkdir backend-quote-generator
2. cd backend-quote-generator
3. npm install -y
4. npm express
5. code . (go to visual studio code)
6. npm install --save-dev nodemon
7. npm install dotenv
8. npm install mongoose
9. npm start, npm run dev, node server.js (these for run server)

## Setup Instructions for frontend 
go to nextjs website -> installation -> npx create-next-app@latest
What is your project named? my-app (quote-generator)
Would you like to use TypeScript? Yes
Which linter would you like to use? ESLint
Would you like to use Tailwind CSS?  Yes
Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory? Yes
Would you like to use App Router? (recommended)  Yes
Would you like to use Turbopack? (recommended) No
Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)? No
What import alias would you like configured? @/*

then: code . (go direct to project in visual studio code)
npm run dev (to run project port on browser)

### 1. Clone Repository for backend code
bash
git clone https://github.com/Mengkhey/quote-generator-backend.git
cd backend-quote-generator

### 1. Clone Repository for frontend code
bash
git clone https://github.com/Mengkhey/quote-generator-frontend.git
cd quote-generator


##### Architecture Explanation

The project follows a three-tier architecture:

# Frontend (Next.js)

1. Displays the UI.

2. Sends requests to the backend via fetch API. 

# Backend (Express)

1. Exposes REST API endpoints (/api/quotes/random, /api/ai-quote).

2. Connects to MongoDB to retrieve a random quote.

# Database (MongoDB Atlas)

1. Stores a collection of quotes in mongoDB

2. Backend queries the database and Ai gemini base on button user clicked then returns results to the frontend.